## Developing Community forest management guideline and Interactive web based  interface ##
Team members:- 
1. Anu Singh, 
2. Rajeev Kumar Jha and 
3. Gagandeep Chani

--About platform :- 
  The idea behind creating this platform is to communicate about forest with people who owns the forest. This platform will help local 
  communities to take over the responsibility and benefit of the forest in their surrounding. This platform will be built to improve 
  knowledge of local people regarding forestry practices and management of the forest. For any management of community based forest 
  local people should have enough understanding about the diversity and composition of the forest. The advance and easy technology 
  available at this time will support local people to built that knowledge. We want to support the people to create their network 
  of communities to support each other for the management of community based forest. This platform will address different support 
  groups with different types of forest, different arrangement of the forest and also to register community based knowledge regarding 
  the trees and its uses.  We will try to capture the knowledge regarding diversity of forest and communities and look for the options 
  to monetize the values of forest for the benefit of local people.

--Our role:- 
  Work to support the community and NGOs working with community to increase their technical expertise 

Initially, we see the 3 major parts of it, as we know the development is continuous process, so there will be changes in content or 
strategy to fulfill the objective of this initiative. One of our major focus will be to use freely available open source softwares 
and tool for data collection, management, analysis, presentation, and reporting. 

 

1.	Data collection:- Developing or mastering in pre-developed tools for data collection, which suited to forestry. Example - Kobo,
geoodk are good options. Google play store has sth called memento database which is also good. Its easier to make then geoodk as well. 

2.	Data analysis:- Here, we will develop the code for automated analysis. The code script will be sync with our data collection platform
and will analysis on real time base. On same time it will also generate the some simple pictorial information based on descriptive 
analysis and more..

a.	As per talk, we have decided to go with R programming.
b.	To sharpen our knife, we may use one course titled “data scientist toolbox” https://www.coursera.org/learn/data-scientists-tools/lecture/4iftI/building-data-products-overview 
c.	Other thing for same purpose is using version control system to organise our coding, which is github. Please click on link to see 
our version control coding interface. 
d.	I will do initial setup in github to complete of purpose so we can track thing with change.  
https://github.com/Gagandeepchani/R_Coding_For_Forest_Inventory_Data/blob/Anu_Gagan/Forest-Inventory-Script.R 

3.	Implementation of the project for community work:- So far, I have only idea about the qgis-webmap. It works well. But for future we 
need to for some alternative or need to do modification according to our own choice.
We will have some pictorial representation from the 2nd step. 

What next.
1.	A group meeting to make clarity to each other and to take new inputs. (skype or hangout)
2.	Planning whole event as an project.
3.	Proposal writing for getting fund to support our idea.
4.	Sharpening R skill and developing R codes.
I am focusing more on 2nd point “Planning whole event as an project”. To complete that I need to do list, where I need your help for
input.
A.	To do list for data collection part
B.	To do list for data analysis
C.	To do list for presentation of data
I am also making this and will share with you in meeting (skype or hangout)



Introduction of Forest Inventory

Forest inventory refers to accounting of trees and their associated characteristics in a predefined area of a forest. 

The population of trees in a forest vary widely in terms of species composition, age, size, site requirements, potential value, longevity
and growth. Therefore, while designing the forest inventory, we need to pay attention to all these variables. 

Besides, the site characteristics especially the topography, where tree population exist, often dictates sampling protocols making the 
inventory optimal/suitable only for some portion of the population in question. As a result, we need to look for different sampling 
intensity or strategy (the combination of the sampling design and associated estimators) between different regions within the population
(Scott & Gove, 2002).

Objective of forest inventory
 The main objective of all kind of forest inventory is to make informed decision about the forest.  

However, specific objectives varies according to level of forest inventory: National, management, operational and so on. 

The timber production is still the major focus of most of the forest inventory design (Scott & Gove, 2002)  as of the traditional ones. 
However, the modern forest inventory designs support a holistic view of forest ecosystems addressing not only timber production but the 
multiple functions of forests as well as the need to understand the functioning mechanisms of forest ecosystems (Köhl et al. 2006, Köhl 
& Marco 2016).

Variables to be included in forest inventory

●	Location of forest
●	Position of trees
●	Species
●	DBH
●	Height
●	Upper stem diameter
●	Distance between trees
●	Bark thickness
●	Diameter increment
●	Age
●	Crown attributes (form, density, and so on)
●	Stem shape
●	Quality
●	Tree sociological position
●	Regeneration status
●	Biodiversity variables (important plants, ntfps, wildlife)

Social aspects (for management plan development) especially of determining the objective of forest management and to know about the 
demand and supply of forest products, socio-economic condition of people, IGA activities for pro-poor and so on. 
●	Forest food 
●	Local name of different species in forest and their uses by indigenous group
Procedures
1.	Social meeting
2.	Mapping with delineation of different areas (in my opinion it would be better to map both forest and area where the users of that 
forest resides in order to know about the situation outside forest)
3.	Stratification of forest, in needed
4.	Determination of sampling design, sampling frame, number of sample plots
5.	Prepare the cruse 
6.	Field inventory
7.	Data management
8.	Data analysis
9.	Report preparation/management plan preparation
10.	Endorse the management plan with the users and local authorities
11.	Approval of management plan


References
Scott, C. T., & Gove, J. H. (2002). Forest Inventory. In Encyclopedia of environmetrics. (pp. 814–820). Chichester: John Wiley & Sons, 
Ltd. Retrieved from https://www.fs.fed.us/ne/durham/4104/papers/Gove18.pdf
Köhl, Michael & Magnussen, Steen & Marchetti, Marco. (2006). Tropical Forestry. 10.1007/978-3-540-32572-7.

Köhl, Michael & Marchetti, Marco. (2016). Objectives and Planning of Forest Inventories. Tropical Forestry Handbook, Second Edition. 
749-776. 10.1007/978-3-642-54601-3_70.




